content: Add embedded async Rust article (#345)
memfault/interrupt: _drafts/embedded-async-rust.md

async fn buttony(mut button: ExtiInput<'static, PC13>) {
    loop {
        button.wait_for_rising_edge().await;

        LED_BLINK_ACTIVE.fetch_xor(true, Ordering::SeqCst);
    }
}
```

The first thing you'll notice is that we've added a new static variable,
`LED_BLINK_ACTIVE`. It is an
[`AtomicBool`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/core/sync/atomic/struct.AtomicBool.html)
which allows us to safely share it between tasks. We'll use this variable to
track whether or not the LED should be blinking.

```rust
let button = Input::new(p.PC13, Pull::Down);
let button = ExtiInput::new(button, p.EXTI13);
```

In this next section of the new code, we're setting up our button. The first
line sets up our `PC13` GPIO as an input. The second line assigns the GPIO to an
interrupt in the `EXTI`[^5] peripheral of the STM32U5. This sets up the GPIO as
an interrupt source and allows us to wait for the button to be pressed without
having to poll the GPIO.

```rust
if LED_BLINK_ACTIVE.load(Ordering::SeqCst) {
    led.toggle();
}
```

Next, we have a small change in our `blinky` task. We've added a check to see if
the LED should be blinking. If it should, we toggle the LED. If not, we do

> nothing. This is a simple way to pause the blinking of the LED when the button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nothing. This is a simple way to pause the blinking of the LED when we press the button.
```

    EXTI.pr(0).write_value(Lines(bits));
    #[cfg(any(exti_c0, exti_g0, exti_l5, exti_u5, exti_h5, exti_h50))]
    {
        EXTI.rpr(0).write_value(Lines(bits));
        EXTI.fpr(0).write_value(Lines(bits));
    }
}
```

The last piece of the puzzle is the interrupt handler. Again we won't cover all
of the register configurations [^5] here. The important part is right in the
middle where we call `wake` on the waker associated with the interrupt line that
fired.

```rust
for pin in BitIter(bits) {
    EXTI_WAKERS[pin as usize].wake();
}
```

This is the key to how our future is driven to completion. When any interrupt
registered fires, we'll call the associated waker. Under the hood, this will
throw our `buttony` task back onto the executor's task queue, and it will be
polled when it gets its next turn.

## Benefits of Async Rust on Embedded Systems

We now understand how Rust futures work under the hood, and the role an executor
plays in managing and driving futures to completion. The question remains,
why would we go through all this trouble? What benefit do we gain over a
traditional preemptive RTOS or a bare-metal super loop? The answer is I/O!

> One of the biggest benefits of async Rust is smaller code size. A traditional

Reviewer 2: code size? seems like you mean RAM requirements here? Maybe both are true ;)

Author: I sure did, oof

RTOS will require a stack for each task. Rust futures only need to keep track
of variables that are used across await points. This means that the memory
needed for an async task can be much smaller than a traditional RTOS task, as

> small 10s of bytes for less complex tasks! This means we can spin up more tasks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
small as 10s of bytes for less complex tasks! This means we can spin up more tasks
```

that have smaller discrete jobs, instead of overloading single tasks with
multiple responsibilities.

Another benefit is the lack of context switching between tasks. Since we're
operating in a cooperative scheduling environment, we don't need to save and
restore the state of a task when it is pending. This means we can spend more
time doing useful work, and less time context-switching!

## Downsides of Async Rust on Embedded Systems

There's no such thing as a free lunch, and async Rust is no exception. There are
some downsides to using async Rust on embedded systems.

While async Rust feels ergonomic, there is still a lot of complexity under the
hood. This can make it difficult to debug issues when they arise. An overloaded
task that is starving others in the runtime can be difficult to diagnose. This
isn't helped by the fact that debug symbols can get a little weird when using
async Rust. This is because stack unwinding isn't quite what you'd
expect when looking because of the way futures are polled and scheduled.

Another downside is the lack of priorities introduced by the cooperative
scheduler. To its credit, Embassy has a pretty cool solution to this problem.

> Using the priorities assigned to interrupts, multiple executors can be run in
> said interrupts[^6]. This allows for a form of priority-based scheduling, but

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the priorities assigned to interrupts, an executor is run in each of these interrupts[^6]. This allows for a form of priority-based scheduling, but
```
